{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf600
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Bold;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f2\fswiss\fcharset0 Arial-BoldMT;
\f3\fswiss\fcharset0 Arial-BoldItalicMT;\f4\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red28\green28\blue28;\red255\green255\blue255;\red63\green63\blue63;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c14510\c14510\c14510;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;\cssrgb\c31373\c31373\c31373;
}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs28 \cf0 Capstone 1:
\f1\b0\fs24 \
\
Data sources: \
US DOE - Annual Electricity Price by State, 1990 - 2017\
	Avg price by state by provider\
	Residential\
	Commercial\
	Industrial\
	Transportation\
	Total (may be avg)\
US DOE - Electric Power Industry estimated emissions 1990 - 2017:\
	producer type\
	energy source\
	CO2 MT\
	SO2 MT\
	NOx MT\
	Problem - no methane emissions in this data source\
\
Problem statement:\
Electricity generation drives 28% of US greenhouse gas emissions (c. 2017). \
\
https://content.next.westlaw.com/Document/Ieb49d7b91cb511e38578f7ccc38dcbee/View/FullText.html?contextData=(sc.Default)&transitionType=Default&firstPage=true&bhcp=1\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs22 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Electricity regulation in the United States: overview\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \cb3 by\'a0
\f3\i Kenneth L Wiseman, Mark F Sundback, Bill Rappolt 
\f2\i0 and 
\f3\i Andrew P Mina, Sheppard Mullin LLP
\f1\i0\b0 \cf0 \cb1 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2\b \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 \
State public utilities commissions generally have jurisdiction over local distribution, retail sales of electricity within a state from one entity to an end user, and the siting and construction of transmission facilities, generation facilities, and distribution systems.\
\

\f4\b0 Particularly in a time of overt hostility to climate goals at the federal level, state regulation is critical to confronting the climate crisis in the US. Numerous states have established mandates for zero-emission energy generation, but there is resistance to such targets in many states, due in part to a perceived high cost of low emissions. Our goal is to use US DOE data to establish a predictive model for the impact of emissions reductions via changes in generation profile on electricity rates. \
\
\

\f2\b\fs28 Capstone 2:
\f4\b0\fs22 \
\
Data Source:\
https://exoplanetarchive.ipac.caltech.edu/docs/API_exoplanet_columns.html#stellarcol\
\
Problem statement: \
Since 1996, 4073 extrasolar planets have been discovered and characterized. For extrasolar\
planets, typically only the orbital period and proportional stellar dimming or stellar radial velocity variation are known, as compared to the numerous other details that are known about planets in our solar system. In 2011, in the journal Astrobiology, Schulza-Makuch et. al. proposed the Earth Similarity Index, which incorporates radius, density, escape velocity, and surface temperature as a proxy for habitability. For extrasolar planets, some of these properties are speculative, but stand-in characteristics are available. \
\
We propose to derive the ESI for extrasolar planets, explore the relationship between stellar characteristics and ESI, and build a predictive model relating stellar properties to habitable planets. \
\
\

\f2\b\fs28 Capstone 3:
\fs22 \

\f4\b0 \
Data source:\
https://data.cityofnewyork.us/Public-Safety/NYPD-Arrests-Data-Historic-/8h9b-rp9u\
\
Problem statement:\
Stop and frisk was a controversial policy whereby NYC police would temporarily detain, question, and search people without probable cause. Between 2002 until 2017, millions of stops were made, with annual numbers peaking at over half a million in 2011. Stops declined by over 95% by 2018, and yet crime continued to fall even while stops declined. \
\
We will analyze NYC arrest records throughout the rise, peak, and decline of stop and frisk, to determine }